kb(grid): Cancel Confirmation Dialog (#1203)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/grid-show-confirm-cancel-dialog.md

---
title: Show Cancel Confirmation Dialog before proceeding with other data operations
description: How to prompt the user to confirm canceling the edit before proceeding with other data operations?
type: how-to
page_title: Show Cancel Confirmation Dialog before proceeding with other data operations
slug: grid-kb-show-confirm-cancel-dialog
position: 
tags: grid, edit, cancel, confirm, dialog
ticketid: 1552190
res_type: kb
---

## Environment
<table>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>Product</td>
			<td>Grid for Blazor <br/> TreeList for Blazor</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

## Description

Is there any way to show a cancel confirmation dialog when edit or insert operation is in progress and sorting/filtering/grouping option is initiated? For example, display a dialog with "Are you sure you want to cancel editing?" question and a confirmation button.

How to prompt the user to confirm canceling the edit/create before proceeding with other data operations(sort, filter, group etc.)?

## Solution

> If the user tries to perform some other operation (such as sorting or filtering) while the Grid is in create or edit mode, the creating/editing will be canceled (check the last bullet of the [Editing Notes section]({%slug components/grid/editing/overview%}#notes) for more details). The `OnCancel` event will fire and you may handle it to display a Dialog to allow the user choose whether they want to cancel the editing or not.

Reviewer: Shorter sentences, fewer words.

```suggestion
If the user performs another operation (such as sorting or filtering) while the Grid is in edit mode, then editing will be canceled. Check the last bullet in the [Editing Notes section]({%slug components/grid/editing/overview%}#notes) for more details. The Grid `OnCancel` event will fire and you can handle it to display a Dialog to allow the user to choose whether they want to cancel the editing or not.
```

> We provide predefined and custom dialogs and based on which one you want to proceed with, the implementation for achieving the desired scenario will be different:

Reviewer: The second sentence does not provide additional value at this point and can be removed.

```suggestion
Telerik UI for Blazor provides predefined and custom Dialogs:
```

* [Predefined Confirm Dialog](#predefined-confirm-dialog) - this option is useful if you want to have a simple dialog with plain text a single confirmation button.

* [Dialog Component](#dialog-component) - this solution allows full control over the dialog rendering. You may add any desired content there such as custom text, HTML elements or other components.

This article lists samples for the Grid component. The suggested solutions, however, are applicable for the [TreeList]({%slug treelist-overview%}), too.

### Predefined Confirm Dialog

Use [Predefined Confirm Dialog]({%slug dialog-predefined%}#confirm) with the desired custom text. Additionally, you may get the details for the current item and add them to the text:

* Handle the [`OnCancel`]({%slug grid-events%}#cud-events) event of the Grid
* Display the Predefined Dialog in the `OnCancel` handler

> * Prevent the event or allow cancel edit/create depending on the user choice

Reviewer: Difficult to understand...?

```suggestion
* Prevent the event to keep the Grid in edit mode. This will cancel the other user action.
```

````CSHTML
@*Only OnCancel event is handled for brevity*@

@using System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations @* for the validation attributes *@

<TelerikGrid Data=@GridData
             EditMode="@GridEditMode.Inline"
             Pageable="true"
             Sortable="true"
             Height="500px"
             OnCancel="@CancelHandler"
             ShowColumnMenu="true">
    <GridToolBar>
        <GridCommandButton Command="Add" Icon="add">Add Employee</GridCommandButton>
    </GridToolBar>
    <GridColumns>
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(SampleData.ID) Title="ID" Editable="false" />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(SampleData.Name) Title="Name" />
        <GridCommandColumn>
            <GridCommandButton Command="Save" Icon="save" ShowInEdit="true">Update</GridCommandButton>
            <GridCommandButton Command="Edit" Icon="edit">Edit</GridCommandButton>
            <GridCommandButton Command="Cancel" Icon="cancel" ShowInEdit="true">Cancel</GridCommandButton>
        </GridCommandColumn>
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    private List<SampleData> GridData { get; set; }

>     private bool cancelEdit { get; set; }

Reviewer: Should be `CancelEdit` with a capital letter. Only local variables are camelCase.

    private string Title { get; set; } = "Please confirm";

    [CascadingParameter]
    public DialogFactory Dialogs { get; set; }

    private async Task CancelHandler(GridCommandEventArgs args)
    {
        SampleData item = (SampleData)args.Item;

        CancelEdit = await Dialogs.ConfirmAsync("Are you sure you want to cancel editing?", "Please confirm!");

        if (!CancelEdit)
        {
            //stop the Cancel event to allow the user continue editing
            args.IsCancelled = true;
        }
    }

    protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync()
    {
        GridData = new List<SampleData>();

>         for (int i = 0; i < 50; i++)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        for (int i = 1; i <= 50; i++)
```

             EditMode="@GridEditMode.Inline"
             Pageable="true"
             Sortable="true"
             Height="500px"
             OnCancel="@CancelHandler"
             ShowColumnMenu="true">
    <GridToolBar>
        <GridCommandButton Command="Add" Icon="add">Add Employee</GridCommandButton>
    </GridToolBar>
    <GridColumns>
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(SampleData.ID) Title="ID" Editable="false" />
        <GridColumn Field=@nameof(SampleData.Name) Title="Name" />
        <GridCommandColumn>
            <GridCommandButton Command="Save" Icon="save" ShowInEdit="true">Update</GridCommandButton>
            <GridCommandButton Command="Edit" Icon="edit">Edit</GridCommandButton>
            <GridCommandButton Command="Cancel" Icon="cancel" ShowInEdit="true">Cancel</GridCommandButton>
        </GridCommandColumn>
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

<TelerikDialog @bind-Visible="@DialogVisible"
               Title="@Title">
    <DialogContent>
        Are you sure you want to cancel the editing?
    </DialogContent>
    <DialogButtons>
        <TelerikButton OnClick="@(() => CancelConfirmation("continueEdit"))">No, continue edit</TelerikButton>

>         <TelerikButton OnClick="@(() => CancelConfirmation("cancelEdit"))">Yes, cancel edit</TelerikButton>

Reviewer: Use a boolean argument instead.

    </DialogButtons>
</TelerikDialog>

@code {
    private List<SampleData> GridData { get; set; }

    private bool DialogVisible { get; set; }

    private string Title { get; set; } = "Please confirm";

    private bool? ContinueEdit { get; set; }

    private async Task CancelHandler(GridCommandEventArgs args)
    {
        SampleData item = (SampleData)args.Item;

        //clean the value, so you can always get the updated one
        ContinueEdit = null;

        //show dialog
        DialogVisible = true;

        //wait for the user choice from the dialog handled in CancelConfirmation()
        while (!ContinueEdit.HasValue)
        {

>             await Task.Delay(10);

Reviewer: You can use a larger timeout period for more efficient app performance. Users can't distinguish 10ms from 50ms anyway. We use 20ms for the built-in predefined dialogs. See `DialogBuilder.razor.cs`.

        }

        //cancel the event if the user wants to continue editing
        args.IsCancelled = ContinueEdit.Value;
    }

    private async Task CancelConfirmation(string userchoice)
    {
        if (userchoice == "continueEdit")
        {
            //stop the cancel event and continue edit
            ContinueEdit = true;
        }
        else
        {
            //cancel the edit
            ContinueEdit = false;
        }

        //hide the dialog
        DialogVisible = false;
    }

    protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync()
    {
        GridData = new List<SampleData>();

>         for (int i = 0; i < 50; i++)

Reviewer: Start from 1. A Zero ID is equivalent to no ID and this creates problems with Create operations.
```suggestion
        for (int i = 1; i <= 50; i++)
```
